---
layout: post
title: "JAGS and R online"
category: 'Tool'
---

General information
-------------------

For assignments 2-4, you will need to use JAGS to answer some of the questions. Here are the steps to do this:

- Go to this: [URL](http://54.201.228.108/) Make sure to use a standard laptop-sized screen and a relatively recent browser.
- Create an account **where your username should be your student id** (if your student id is not in our database for some reason, send us a private message in Piazza). Note: do not use the same password as you use for important services, since it is not encrypted.
- Once you are logged in, look at the ``tutorials`` to get familiar with JAGS and the online tool. 
- Then go in the assignment tab and start by clicking ``Take assignment``. **Click on one of the black arrows to start the assignment (they all lead to the same resources in this assignment).**
- **Make sure you click on ``Commit`` often to save your work!**

Quick reference
---------------

Some quick references for convenience (see the tutorials for more context and information). "Mathematical notation" refers to what you will find in the notes and in the textbook. The notation in JAGS is very similar, but with some slight differences.

#### Distributions (PMFs)

- Bernoulli: ``dbern(p)``
- Binomial: ``dbin(p, n)``
- Categorical: ``dcat(p)``
- Poisson: ``dpois(lambda)``
- Geometric: ```dnegbin(p, 1)```
- Negative Binomial: ```dnegbin(p, r)```

[More information on distributions](http://www.stat.ubc.ca/~bouchard/courses/stat302-fa2014-15/2014/10/07/distributions.html)

#### Useful functions

- Absolute value: ``abs(x)``
- Exponential: ``exp(x)``
- Conditional: ``ifelse(x,a,b)``
- Logarithm (base e): ``log(x)``
- Square root: ``sqrt(x)``
- Maximum: ``max(x, y)`` (note: works on vectors and/or more than two arguments)
- Minimum: ``min(x, y)``
- Sum: ``sum(x)`` (sum the elements in the vector x)


Optional readings
-----------------

In case you are curious, more advanced, **optional** information on JAGS is available at these addresses: 

- [Complete reference](http://blue.for.msu.edu/CSTAT_13/jags_user_manual.pdf),
- How it works under the hood: [tutorial on MCMC](http://videolectures.net/mlss09uk_murray_mcmc/),
- A book on using JAGS to build Bayesian models: "Doing Bayesian Data Analysis: A Tutorial with R and BUGS", John Kruschke.